Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a Drama-Thriller film called:
"Deadly Illusions.” Focused on a person's
grip on reality, this mind-boggling movie
shows how something as common as a stressful
situation can lead to a person losing his mind.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
New York Times Best Selling Author, Mary Morrison,
is happily married to Tom Morrison. With a loving
husband, two beautiful children, and a successful
career, Mary can’t ask for more. After dropping
off her twins at school one day, Mary is visited
by her publisher, Kioki, and his associate,
Darlene. They want Mary to write another book
for their best-selling series, Delirium, and
they offer her a handsome sum to do it. However,
Mary gets upset and refuses, saying she and Kioki
have already discussed it before. With Mary’s
adamance about not writing the book, they leave.
That night, Tom arrives home and
sees the envelope from Kioki,
and the offered amount to Mary surprises him.
With Tom asking why she didn’t tell him about it,
Mary finally reads the document, and she’s
astounded that $2 million is on the table.
Tom notes that that's more money upfront than
all her books combined, but Mary doesn't want
to discuss it yet. As they prepare for dinner, Tom
advises her to seriously consider Kioki’s offer.
After putting the kids to sleep, Mary sweetly
makes love with her husband. But when they finish,
Tom confesses to losing half of their reserves
after making a risky investment six months ago,
leaving Mary deeply upset. When Mary
first refused to talk about Kioki's offer,
Tom's disappointment immediately hints that he's
hiding something from his wife. His suggestion
about considering taking the project also shows
he needs her help, but Mary doesn't even notice.
Moreover, Tom's strategy to uplift Mary's mood by
making love to her before breaking the bad news
is a cheap one, especially since the mistake he
made isn't something that can be fixed overnight.
After some time, Mary goes to the spa with her
friend, Elaine, who convinces her to take Kioki's
offer. However, Mary isn't sure if she will since
she turns into a different person when she writes.
Elaine then suggests hiring a nanny to help her
with the twins, but Mary strongly opposes as
she doesn't want someone else taking care of
her children. Determined to help her friend,
Elaine gives Mary the contact number of her
client, Angela, who is a headhunter for sitters.
Elaine stresses that her friend only recruits
girls who go to Ivy League schools and that a
nanny is what she needs to get through. Clearly,
Mary’s at a crossroads with what she should do.
Accepting Kioki’s offer’s the answer to her
current financial struggles, but as she hinted,
she seems to struggle with her mental
health when writing. A nanny could help her,
but her motherly instinct to put her children
first comes out. To see any sort of resolution,
something’s gotta give, and from the
looks of it, it’s going to be Mary.
When Mary visits Angela in her office,
Angela gives her a tour of the place.
Angela then offers to send a few candidates
for Mary to meet with, emphasizing that she
can revisit if none of them work out. After
careful consideration, Mary accepts Angela's
offer. During her meeting with the girls, Mary
immediately realizes that none of them stands out.
She tells Tom about her interview, and she
worries that hiring a nanny isn’t a good idea.
Still, Tom reminds her that she won't
be able to handle everything on her own.
Tom also adds that having a nanny might be good
for the kids, but when Mary says she can't picture
anyone taking care of her children the way she
does, her husband assures her no one can replace
her. Once again, Mary shows her reluctance to have
someone else take care of her kids other than her.
Even when she's interviewing the applicants, Mary
doesn't really seem interested and is just being
polite to the young ladies. As she talks to Tom
about the interview, it shows that as a mother,
Mary is a perfectionist who won't settle for
anything less. When another interviewee arrives,
Mary ends the call and greets the young
lady. Inside, the young woman takes her seat,
and as she reads her book, Mary finds herself
staring at her. Mary starts the interview and
learns that the young woman, Grace, is
from River Springs and loves reading.
Their conversation is interrupted by
a phone call, so while Mary’s gone,
Grace takes a look at the twins' photos
before getting a book from the counter.
When the twins arrive, Grace sees them bickering.
She immediately talks to them and introduces
herself as Mary's friend. Mary hears their
conversation, and she smiles as she listens
to her kids' laughter. She then greets her
children and tells them to go to their room,
and when Mary sees the book Grace is
holding, she tells the girl to follow her.
In Mary’s office, Grace gets surprised when she
realizes that Mary is a writer after getting one
of her books from the shelf. A little hesitant,
Mary informs Grace that she still isn't sure if
she needs someone full-time but asks her if she
is available in the coming week. Mary says she
needs a little help since she's writing a new
book, and Grace is happy to accept her offer.
Grace and Mary's rapport is intensified by
their love for books, and maybe that is one
of the reasons why Mary decided to give her a
chance. Grace is like a younger version of her,
and Mary must think that having her take
care of the twins doesn't seem so bad.
Grace and the kids quickly take
a liking to each other. One day,
Elaine’s son and Mary’s twins ask their moms
if they could go for a swim, and Grace happily
volunteers to take them. Mary offers to lend Grace
a swimsuit, and when she notices that Grace is not
comfortable with the one-piece, she gives the girl
something to cover herself up with. By the pool,
Elaine notes that the swimsuit Mary
gave to Grace is too revealing. However,
Mary insists she doesn't need to worry
about Grace since the girl is a prude.
When Tom arrives and shakes hands with Grace,
Elaine waits if Mary will say something,
but she remains quiet. Mary is confident
that she won't have any problems with Grace,
but her best friend thinks otherwise. Although
she won't say it directly, Elaine feels like Grace
is too good to be true. Elaine only wants Mary to
be cautious, but Mary doesn't take her seriously.
In the evening, Tom congratulates
Mary for hiring Grace.
They then make out in the kitchen before
making love in the pantry. When they return,
Grace asks them if she could get the kids ready
for bed. Once Grace is done, Tom invites her to
join them for dinner, but Grace politely refuses
and goes home. The couple has found more freedom
after hiring Grace. They can now enjoy more
intimate and enjoyable times together without
worrying about the kids since Grace is there
to take care of them. The next day, while Grace
arranges the plates in the kitchen, she suddenly
hears Mary screaming, so she quickly rushes to
her aid. Mary has accidentally stepped on broken
glass, and as Grace puts ointment in her wound,
Mary can't help but look at Grace's chest. Instead
of going back to work, Mary decides to take Grace
shopping. Mary helps Grace try new undergarments
and then tells the girl she wishes she had spent
more time feeling good about her body. Grace
then places Mary's hand on her chest, trying
to make her remember what it's like to be young
again. Mary buys the undergarments they've chosen,
and at home, she tells Grace to wear some of the
old clothes she doesn't use anymore. Later that
day, Mary asks her husband about his thoughts
on plastic surgery, mentioning that she's not
getting any younger, but Tom simply tells her she
doesn't need it. As the couple talks, Grace enters
the room and informs them she'll be coming in late
the next day since she has a doctor's appointment.
Here, it's a wonder why Mary doesn't get
startled when Grace places her hand on her chest.
She believes that Grace is a bit old-fashioned,
but she doesn't even react to the girl's actions.
Still, hints of Mary’s insecurity are starting to
creep, especially after seeing Grace half nude.
One day, Mary takes a break from work and
goes outside for a smoke. As she sits outside,
Mary sees Grace from inside the house trying on
the clothes she gave her. Kioki then calls her
attention, and Mary realizes she's daydreaming.
Kioki and Darlene want Mary to turn the main
character of her book, the mother, into a
villain, but Mary doesn't think it's a good idea.
As their meeting continues, Mary finds herself
thinking about Grace, fantasizing about the girl
being undressed. Mary's problems begin here when
she starts having intrusive thoughts even at work.
It's not even clear why the image of Grace's
bare body keeps popping into Mary's mind,
only that she can't stop thinking about the girl.
Later on, Mary tells Elaine about her fantasy,
and Elaine asks her if she's ever been
attracted to a woman before. When Mary says no,
Elaine says it could all just be in her head.
Elaine then suggests that Mary could use her
good relationship with Grace as an inspiration
to write since she's experiencing writer's block,
and Mary takes her friend's advice. Though her
issues with Grace are new territory for her, Mary
has no problem confiding in Elaine. The two must
go way back, especially with how Mary’s always
listening to Elaine’s counsel. When she gets home,
Mary finds Tom and Grace talking to each other.
Mary then kisses her husband and sits on his lap,
and when the twins call her, Grace volunteers to
see what they need. When Tom reminds Mary about
their fundraiser dinner, Mary exclaims that
she forgot about it and that she didn’t even
book a sitter. Overhearing their conversation,
Grace offers to stay late, and the couple accepts.
Grace is always so attentive to Mary's needs,
and Mary only sees this as something that the girl
is good at. Before Mary leaves for their dinner,
Grace expresses her gratitude towards her for
giving her a job. Flattered, Mary tells her
nanny they're lucky to have her, reminding
her that she's a very special young lady.
Aside from being a golden nanny,
Grace also packs a silver tongue.
She always knows which words to say to Mary
since she always manages to make her happy.
The next day, Mary writes topless by the pool.
She then asks Grace to put sunscreen on her back.
Once done, Mary jumps into the pool and removes
her bikini, asking Grace to join her since nobody
is around. A little reluctant, Grace picks up
the bikini that Mary just took off and briefly
goes inside the house to change. When she returns,
Grace jumps into the pool, too, enjoying her time
with Mary. When they finally rest, Grace begs Mary
not to let her go, saying she's never felt more
loved than when she's with her. Feeling sad for
Grace, Mary hugs the girl and tells her they'll be
there for her forever. As she cradles Grace in her
arms, Mary tells Grace she's the reason she broke
her writer's block. Mary then falls asleep, and
when she opens her eyes, she sees Grace going down
on her. But when she truly wakes up, Mary looks
around in confusion, unsure if what she saw was
just a dream. With Mary loosening up a bit more
around Grace, she’s getting more and more dreams
about the girl. She’s helpless to Grace’s charms,
and she believes everything that the nanny says.
As her dreams about Grace continue,
Mary must realize that something is off.
After watching the twins' recital, Mary pulls
Grace aside to talk about what happened between
them. She tells Grace that they should forget
about it, but the girl doesn't even know what
Mary is talking about. Mary then realizes that it
was just a dream, and she’s relieved that she's
mistaken. After some time, Grace brings Mary some
rose petals and milk for her bath. She then feeds
Mary some honey before giving her a massage. As
Grace's hands travel down her shoulders, Mary
tells her to stop. However, Grace insists and says
she just wants to make her happy. Defeated, Mary
lets her, so Grace continues with the massage.
Grace then puts her hand on Mary's private parts,
enjoying as she watches Mary relish her touch.
Just as she is about to climax, Mary opens her
eyes and realizes she's daydreaming again. When
she looks down, Mary is surprised to see that the
tub is filled with petals. At this point, it's
safe to say that Mary isn't sure what's real
anymore. She thinks what happened in the bathroom
was just a dream, but she proves herself wrong
when she sees the petals in the tub. The thing is,
Mary is actually enjoying her sensual moments with
Grace, whether they're real or not. It’s hard
to say that she hasn't already made a mistake.
Over the next few days, Mary focuses on completing
her book. As Mary works, Grace and Tom grow
closer. One day, Elaine gets suspicious when she
catches them dropping off the kids at school.
She tries calling Mary to talk about what
she saw, but Mary won't answer her call.
As Tom and Grace eat out, Tom notices that there's
something different about her, but he can't quite
point it out. Grace is acting completely carefree,
smiling and joking every time Tom says something.
When they drive home, Grace happily dances to
the music, showing Tom a different side of her.
With the sudden change in Grace’s personality,
it isn’t a stretch to think that the red petals
in Mary’s tub come from the big red flag looming
over Grace. Tom already notices it and even asks
Grace about it, but he ignores this and
thinks Grace is just having a good time.
Grace, on the other hand, certainly looks
like she's having the time of her life,
but the way she speaks and moves suggests
there's more to it than what Tom thinks.
Three weeks later, Mary and Grace ride their
bicycles and drink some wine by the river. As
Mary reads a book, Grace places her hand on Mary's
leg and caresses it until the two of them start
making out. Once again, Mary fails to pull herself
away from Grace, and instead, falls deeper into
the nanny's enchantments. Mary tells Grace that
she sees so much of herself in her, and as their
kiss deepens, Mary says they should stop. When
Grace thinks she did something wrong, Mary assures
her that she's perfect. Instead of acknowledging
the mistake they just made, Mary makes Grace feel
that what they're doing is normal. She's
completely forgotten about her husband,
and she doesn't even look guilty about it. They
then decide to head home, but they’re shocked to
see that the bicycle's tire is slashed. Mary calls
her husband for help, but when she can't reach
him, the women walk home instead. There, Mary
finds Tom and Elaine talking in hushed voices.
Grace tells him where they went, and the smile on
her face fades away when Tom kisses Mary. Elaine
then pulls Mary aside, subtly warning her that
Tom might be fooling around with Grace, but Mary
defends her nanny and calls Elaine paranoid. Mary
asks Elaine what she and Tom were talking about,
but Elaine doesn’t answer when she sees Grace
approaching them. Elaine only says they should
just talk about it next time, and she reminds Mary
that she loves her before finally driving home.
Out of the three adults, it looks like Elaine is
the only one who can see right through Grace. Her
repeated attempts to warn Mary about her nanny is
proof that she doesn't trust the girl, but Mary
refuses to see that. Mary even doubts Elaine's
motives with how she’s always asking questions
about Grace. This must hurt Elaine’s feelings
since she knows Mary better than Grace does.
While Grace prepares their food for dinner, she
asks Mary if she realizes how beautiful she is.
Mary feels flattered, and as she tells Grace
about her and Tom's anniversary the next day,
Grace starts touching her again. Although Mary is
hesitant, she just gives in and lets Grace do what
she wants with her. As Grace goes down on her,
Tom and the twins suddenly arrive, forcing them
to stop. Pretending like nothing happened, Mary
excuses herself, saying she wants to lie down.
Clearly, Mary has already lost herself with how
she does vulgar things with Grace without fear,
even when Tom and the twins are in the house.
As Mary is about to sleep, she hears
Grace shouting from the kitchen.
When she checks it out, Mary sees Grace and Tom
making out on the counter before passing out.
Mary then wakes up, unsure if she just had another
dream, and joins Grace and her family for dinner.
As they sit at the table, Mary confronts Grace
and Tom about what she saw, but Grace remains
quiet about it. When the kids get scared by Mary's
behavior, Tom assures them that their mother is
just unwell. Mary then apologizes to the twins,
saying when she writes, her imagination gets so
vivid that she can't tell which ones are real.
Since Mary’s aware that the way her mind works
changes when she’s writing, the confrontation
is almost careless. She doesn’t have any proof,
she isn’t sure if what she saw was real, and
she did it in front of her children. Instead of
resolving the issue, Mary only embarrasses herself
and frightens her children. In their bedroom,
Mary tells her husband how she really feels about
him expecting her to clean up the mess he made.
Tom apologizes and comforts his wife, reminding
her that she's almost through with her work, which
finally calms Mary down. Despite the frequent
romancing they’ve been doing, the pressure from
their financial problem isn’t lost on Mary. It’s
put her under undue stress and pressure, while all
Tom could do is console her since he knows it’s
all his fault. This may even be partly the reason
why Mary keeps gravitating towards Grace—she’s
a break from all her troubles, and she lets Mary
feel like she could rely on her. Sometime after
midnight, Mary wakes up and goes for a smoke,
only to realize that she’s out of tobacco. She
then notices that the light in her office is on,
and when she sees that nobody is there, Mary
gets her manuscript before going back to sleep.
The next day, Mary calls the nanny agency
about a check she sent them a while ago.
During the call, Mary is surprised to learn that
they're actually waiting for her to decide which
nanny she wants to go with. When she asks if Grace
works with them, the agency informs her they don't
have anyone by that name. Confused, Mary ends the
call and hides what she just learned from Grace.
Then, she apologizes to Grace for her outburst,
but she says she understands her. Though she’s
known for her writing, Mary chooses to flaunt
her poor decision-making skills instead when
she doesn’t ask for the police or anyone’s help
despite her growing suspicions toward Grace. When
Grace leaves, Mary decides to find Grace's address
by going to the library and looking for the last
book she checked out. Once she has it, Mary calls
Elaine and tells her they need to talk before
going to her office. Upon arriving at Elaine's
workplace, Mary is horrified to see that her
friend has been stabbed in the neck with a pair
of scissors. After she calls 911, the authorities
take Elaine's body away, and an officer invites
Mary to the station. There, Mary learns that she's
the main suspect in Elaine's murder. Mary must
be feeling guilty since she had an argument with
Elaine the last time they saw each other, and that
already gives her the motive to hurt her friend.
And while the detective questions Mary, it is
clear that he already has something against her.
The detective reveals that they found her
fingerprints on the murder weapon before
showing footage of her arriving at and leaving
Elaine's office at around one in the morning.
In the video, however, she’s wearing a scarf and
sunglasses which obscure her face. The detective
also shows Mary an excerpt of her writing, saying
it's too similar to what happened to Elaine.
Maintaining her innocence, Mary asserts that her
publisher, Tom, and Grace, all have access to
her work. Before she could say another word, Tom
arrives with a lawyer and keeps her from talking.
The more Mary denies her involvement in Elaine's
death, the more she looks guilty of killing her.
Mary is just relieved that Tom arrived, seeing as
she’s only inches away from incriminating herself.
Outside the interrogation room, Mary wonders
how her fingerprints got on the scissors,
but Tom simply says all their fingerprints
are on them, too, and even the kids'.
When Tom asks where she was the previous night,
Mary explains she got up for a smoke before going
to her office to lock it up and then went back
to bed. Mary insists she didn't go anywhere else,
but she gets confused when Tom tells her she was
gone for 3 hours. He also tells her that the slash
from her bicycle came from a Swiss army knife
they found in the garage, which only contains her
fingerprints. Tom then asks when she last attended
a session with Elaine, and Mary says it was years
ago. Unsure what to believe, Tom informs Mary
that the authorities also found Elaine's notes
from one of their sessions, proving that Mary
has been experiencing memory gaps, time loss, and
out-of-body experiences. Here, it is revealed that
Elaine was actually Mary's therapist. No matter
how sure Mary is that she didn't do anything to
Elaine, her confidence starts to crumble when she
realizes how much time she's lost and forgotten.
Still, Mary refuses to believe she's the culprit.
In search of the truth, Mary goes to Grace's
address to enlighten herself. Though Mary’s
thoroughly implicated here, a flashback reveals
that Grace is the one who slashed Mary's tires,
stole the scissors, and even smoked Mary's last
tobacco while she slept. Upon arriving in River
Springs, California, Mary speaks with Grace’s
aunt. The woman acts oddly, and she even changes
her voice from time to time. Still, she explains
that Grace has suffered mistreatment at the hands
of her parents. Mary also learns that Grace
used to work in a spa. In another flashback,
it is shown that Grace was at the spa the day
Mary and Elaine were talking about Mary's writing.
She took a picture of Angela's calling card
and applied as a nanny, but got rejected.
Grace also stole Mary's address from Angela's
files when she left the room. When she returned
to inform Grace they're not hiring as of
the moment, Grace got mad and insulted her.
Finally, it is made clear that Grace isn't
who she says she is. If only Mary had paid
more attention to what's happening around her,
including her dreams, Grace's changing behavior,
and Elaine’s warnings, then she would've
noticed right away that her nanny is bad news.
Instead, she has given Grace
power over herself and her family.
On her way home, Mary calls Tom to warn
him about Grace, but he can't be reached.
Meanwhile, Grace shows up in the bathroom with a
knife, wearing full makeup and seductive lingerie.
Warning Tom to listen to everything she says,
Grace informs him that she's completely insane.
She then repeatedly attacks Tom with a knife, and
he is unable to defend himself due to his wounds.
When Mary arrives home, Tom collapses on
the floor while Grace returns to her sweet,
innocent self and changes her clothes. She then
greets a frantic Mary and tells her the kids are
in their room. When Mary asks for her husband,
Grace warns her not to go to the bathroom,
saying it's messy there. However, Mary ignores
her and heads straight to the bathroom,
where she finds Tom bleeding. As Mary tends to
him, Grace arrives and starts cleaning the blood
on the floor. Absurdly enough, she even apologizes
for the mess. After Mary orders Grace to call 911,
she asks the nanny who harmed Tom. Crying, Grace
says she tried to stop "her," revealing that she's
suffering from Dissociative Identity Disorder.
At this point, Tom is already telling Mary that
Grace tried to seduce him, and she even knows
that Grace is a dangerous person. Ridiculously,
Mary still orders Grace to call 911 for her.
It’s like she’s purposely turning a blind eye
on everything even though the answer is already in
front of her. This leaves Mary and Tom to watch as
their nanny switches back and forth between being
Grace to Margaret, who is Grace's other identity.
Margaret wants to kill them, but Grace keeps
trying to fight back and tells Mary to run. When
Mary bolts for the door, Margaret follows her, and
the two brawl it out. Meanwhile, Mary's daughter
tries to check what's going on downstairs, but she
realizes their door is locked. Mary and Margaret
continue fighting, and as Grace struggles to
overpower her other identity, Margaret starts
strangling Mary. During their fight, Mary has
already managed to hurt Grace using the blender,
but she gets distracted and stops when the nanny
cries in pain, proving that she still cares about
her. However, caring for a dangerous and unstable
person can be deadly, and that is Mary's greatest
weakness. Mary has already had many chances
to subdue Grace, especially while the nanny
struggles to overpower her other identity,
but Mary just chooses to watch her. However,
Mary manages to reach for a vase, and she smashes
it against her nanny's head, finally subduing her.
When Grace opens her eyes, she apologizes
to Mary and begs her not to give up on her.
One year later, Mary happily moves on with
her life with her family. To show her love
and respect for her, Mary leaves her finished
manuscript at Elaine's grave. Unfortunately,
the couple doesn't even address the issues they've
had with Grace, especially Mary's struggles
to control her desire for the woman. Mary then
visits Grace in a psychiatric hospital, and she
is ecstatic to see her. They start playing a card
game, and when Mary leaves, she is seen wearing a
scarf and sunglasses, looking exactly like the
woman who emerged from Elaine's office when she
was murdered. This leaves the question of whether
it’s really Mary who gets out of the hospital or
Grace in disguise. The movie itself leaves many
unanswered questions, like where Mary was during
those three hours she got out of bed and how
real her romantic relationship with Grace was.
It remains unclear which events are just a figment
of Mary's imagination and which ones are not.